---
icon: paintbrush
order: 10
label: Dynamic Art
---

# What is Dynamic Art?

Dynamic art is a genre of art that embodies the principles of change, transformation, and motion. In the digital realm, it involves the creation of artwork that changes and evolves over time due to the application of generative and interactive algorithms. This type of art is typically characterized by three main properties: it is digital, generative, and interactive.

*Digital*: Dynamic art exists in the digital realm. It leverages the potential of modern computing technologies to create artwork that transcends static forms.

*Generative*: The artwork is not designed in its final form by the artist. Instead, the artist creates a system, usually through coding, which generates the artwork based on a set of initial conditions and rules.

*Interactive*: Dynamic art often involves a level of interaction, allowing viewers to influence the artwork's evolution or change over time.


## Heterosis Collection: A Dynamic Art Example

One notable example of dynamic, generative, and interactive art is the [Heterosis collection](https://og.art/collections/heterosis/) by artists Mat Collishaw and Danil Krivoruchko.


### Overview

Heterosis is a unique flower hybridization experience where participants can cultivate their own bespoke, animated NFT flowers. The collection consists of breedable, dynamic NFT flora that exist in the digital wallets of their respective owners, as well as collectively in an extraordinary metaverse 'Greenhouse' - a virtual, post-apocalyptic recreation of London’s National Gallery.


### Mechanism

Upon minting, each collector receives a Heterosis flower with unique DNA and a combination of traits. The NFTs primary look is the result of random luck. Each flower has a unique title generated by AI, using words from ‘The Library of Babel’ a short story by Jorge Luis Borges.

The owner of a Heterosis flower NFT can select any other flower in the collection as a second parent, and to hybridize, they must pay that second parent's owner a fee. When the child flower is generated, the owner can decide to either replace their current flower with the new generation or keep the original one. The second parent flower is not affected in any way by this hybridization process.

Through the hybridization process, collectors can discover new rules that activate mutations and unlock new species and advanced characteristics. Initially, the flowers in the collection have only a few basic traits. But through the hybridization process, collectors can discover new rules that activate mutations and unlock new species and advanced characteristics.

---

In conclusion, dynamic art represents a new frontier in the art world, leveraging digital technology to create interactive, generative works that evolve over time. The Heterosis collection is a prime example of this exciting new genre, offering a unique blend of art, technology, and interactivity that brings the concept of dynamic art to life in the digital realm.